IAIN BACKEBERG
Web Developer | Software Trainer
+27 84 740 9888 iainbackeberg@gmail.com linkedin.com/in/iain-backeberg
SUMMARY
Consistently meeting expected deliverables timeously and proactively with determination,
perseverance, my aim is to objectively empower individuals and organizations to achieve tangible
success with an unwavering commitment to excellence.
During my 10-year span as a client-centric Self-Employed Web Developer,I conducted 26
comprehensive client consultations to accurately capture and interpret client briefs, successfully
transforming clients’ ideas from initial concept to final production, delivering 35 bespoke websites
over a 10-year period. Collaborating with third-party hosting vendors, I maintained 99.5% uptime to
sustain clients’ online presence and visibility. Continuously upskilling to keep pace with ever-changing
web technologies, I increased my project output by 16% year-on-year. My diverse portfolio of web
projects can be viewed retrospectively via "The Wayback Machine Internet Archive" showcasing the
breadth and depth of my expertise.
At the dawn of the millennium, I expertly mentored a group of 12 students in a computer lab to
successfully navigate and overcome the challenges of understanding, learning and using
contemporary computer-aided design software applications within the relatively new fields (at the
time) of desktop publishing, web design and multimedia authoring at the birth of the information
technology revolution.
SKILLS
HARD SKILLS
Project Management Website Monitoring Student Support &
Development
Web Development Google Analytics
Needs Analysis
Coding (html5, css3, asp 3.0, Google Adsense
php, sql) Adobe Suite
Domain Registration
Adobe Photoshop Mentoring
Time Management
Database Design (MS Instructional Delivery
Technology Integration
Access, mySQL)
Software Demonstration
Constructive Feedback
CMS (Wordpress, Joomla)
Testing and Evaluation
Documentation
SEO
Public Speaking
Client Relations
3rd-party Tech Support
Liaison
Supplier Relations
SOFT SKILLS
Verbal Communication Critical Thinking Integrity
Written Communication Creative Problem Solving Independence
Interpersonal Empathetic Strategic
Communication
Analytical Meticulous
Active Listening
Adaptable Proactive
Organisational Skills
EXPERIENCE
Web Developer
Self-Employed
01/2002 - 12/2012 Umdloti, South Africa
● I conducted 26 comprehensive client consultations to accurately capture and interpret client
briefs, successfully transforming clients’ ideas from initial concept to final production,
delivering 35 bespoke websites over a 10-year period.
● Collaborating with third-party hosting vendors, I maintained 99.5% uptime to sustain clients’
online presence and visibility.
● I availed myself 24/7/365 to provide client support and resolve any unforeseen issues as
timeously as possible.
● Continuously upskilling to keep pace with ever-changing web technologies, I improved my
project output by 16% year-on-year.
● Constantly updating websites from legacy code to the latest, up-to-date web technologies of
the time, I ensured all client websites remained 100% current and functional throughout
their lifespan.
● Migrating websites from static HTML to dynamic, responsive sites (HTML5, CSS3, ASP 3.0,
PHP, and SQL and mySQL) I enhanced website optimisation by 84%.
● Using WordPress, Joomla and other bespoke content management systems, I cut update
time by 30%.
● I monitored website functionality and performance using Google Analytics on 35 websites,
providing clients with insights on user interaction and strategies for traffic growth.
● I managed 9 Google Adsense campaigns, contributing to the clients’ revenue generation
strategies to monetize their websites effectively.
● I administered domain registration and renewal processes, ensuring clients' websites
remained operational and accessible to users 24/7/365.
Junior Lecturer
Mediatek Training Institute
01/2001 - 12/2001 Umbilo, South Africa
● I expertly mentored to 12 students, delivering instruction and demonstration on the Adobe
and Macromedia Suite of products, including InDesign, Illustrator, Photoshop, Premier,
Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, Director, Freehand, Sound Editor and QuarkXpress over a
1-year period.
● I successfully taught over 200 lessons, garnering a 100% year-end student success rate.
● I contributed towards an average student exam result of 80%, representing the level of
efficiency at which students would be able to utilise their new skills in desktop publishing,
front-end website design and multimedia authoring within the industry.
EDUCATION
Diploma in Electronic Publishing
Mediatek Training Institute
01/2000 - 12/2000 Umbilo, South Africa
Coursework
Desktop Publishing
QuarkXpress
Macromedia Freehand
Adobe Photoshop
Website Design
HTML 1.0
Javascript 3.0
Macromedia Fireworks
Macromedia Flash
Macromedia Dreamweaver
Multimedia Authoring
Adobe Premier
Macromedia Director
solidThinking’s Inspire 3D
Macromedia SoundEdit 16
